Through promoting the vowed practices your good colour will be glorious,Your ankles will not
be prominent, your body hairs will grow upwards.

Through your zeal for knowledge and the arts and so forth, and through imparting themYou will
have the calves of an antelope, a sharp mind and great wisdom.

If others seek your wealth and possessions, through the discipline of immediate givingYou will
have broad hands, a pleasant complexion and will become a leader of the world.

Through reconciling well friends who have been dividedYour glorious secret organ will retract
inside.

Through giving good houses and nice comfortable carpetsYour colour will be very soft like pure
stainless gold.

Through giving the highest powers [or kingdoms] and following a teacher properlyYou will be
adorned by each and every hair and by a circle of hair between the eyebrows.

Through speech that is pleasant and pleasing and by acting upon the good speech [of others]You
will have curving shoulders and a lion-like upper body.

If you nurse and cure the sick, Your chest will be broad,You will live naturally and all tastes
will be the best.

Through initiating activities concordant with the practices, the swelling on your crownwill
stand out well and [your body] will be symmetrical like a banyan tree.

Through speaking true and soft words over the years, O lord of men,Your tongue will be lond
and your voice that of BrahmƒÅ.

Through speaking true words always at all timesYou will have cheeks like a lion, be glorious
and hard to best.

Through showing great respect, serving others and doing what should be done,Your teeth will
shine very white and even.

Through using true and non-divisive speech over a long timeYou will have forty glorious teeth
set evenly and good.

Through viewing things with love and without desire, hatred or delusionYour eyes will be bright
and blue with eyelashes like a bull.

Thus in brief know well these two and thirty signsOf a great lion of a being together with their
causes.

The eighty minor marks arise from concordant cause of love;Fearing this text would be too long,
I will not, O King, explain them.

All Universal Emperors are regarded as having these,But their purity, their lustre and beauty
cannot begin to match those of a Buddha.

The good major and minor marks of a Universal EmperorAre said to arise from a single act of
faith in the King of Subduers.

But such virtue accumulated with a mind one-pointed for a hundred times ten million aeonsCannot
produce even one of the hair-pores of a Buddha.

Just as the blilliance of suns is slightly like that of fireflies,So the signs of a Buddha are
slightly like those of a Universal Emperor.

Chapter Two: An Interwoven Explanation of Definite Goodness and High Status.

